Object Changes
--------------
Complete overhaul of ego items, with most purely bad types removed 
and many "mixed blessing" types introduced.  There are now many types of curse,
with the traditional "sticky" curse just one of them.  Curse removal is no 
longer certain, and multiple removal attempts can destroy the item (even 
artifacts).  Stat boosts, bonuses, slays, brands and resists are now all values 
rather than flags, so multiple "pvals" and variable slays and brands are 
possible.  The objects bitflags have been completely reworked, and all 
information about an object is now kept with the object rather than referring 
to the object kind.

Pseudo-id is now instant for all classes, and applies to all wearable items.  
Strong pseudo now shows perilous (ego with drawbacks), dubious (some drawback), 
average, good, excellent (ego with no drawbacks) and special (all artifacts); 
weak pseudo shows perilous (some drawback), average or good.  Squelch 
categories have been changed accordingly, I hope in a useful way.  *ID* has 
been reintroduced; now regular ID shows everything except curses, which are 
discoverable either by *ID* or (automatically) noticing when they show up.  

There are some corresponding changes to regular items and artifacts, and some 
new artifacts.  Ungoliant now drops a specific item, making Nan Dungortheb 
worth visiting.  Blades of Chaos have been replaced with Valinorean Swords, and 
"of Chaos" is now an ego type.  Pricing has been changed to be more dependent 
on the object properties and less on the type.  Activatible items can now be 
activated before they are ID'd.

Player Race Monsters
--------------------
Most former human ('p') monsters are now assigned one of the player races, and
have a chance not to be hostile to the player.  Groups of these monsters now 
have the same player race, but not necessarily the same monster race.  These 
groups have leaders, which influence the behaviour of the other monsters.  The 
AI for these guys is still fairly basic, but will mature over the 1.x series.

Mages and Magic
---------------
Mage spells have been completely reworked to make early mages playable, and 
late game mages very powerful.  Books have been reorganised and renamed, and 
spells changed - most notably the last book now consists of varoius rune laying 
spells.  Magestaffs now activate to restore a small amount of mana.  Mana 
attacks have been completely removed from player and monsters (apart from a 
couple of devices).  Some monsters (and PDSM) now get an "elemental attack" 
spell comprised of all 14 resistable elements; this is chiefly useful for 
determining player resistances.  Chaos has become much more chaotic, with 
multiple effects on terrain, monsters and (if unresisted) the player.

Code Modernisation
------------------
Much of the low level code from V3.1.1dev has been incorporated - including 
most of: the build system for *nix and windows, the OSX port and file handling. 

Other changes
-------------
A new terrain type - sand dunes - has been introduced.  It can hold objects, 
and is easy to move through, but blocks line of sight.

Some improvement to object descriptions.

Spell descriptions appear before the spell is learned.

Wands of the same type always stack; if one has an unknown number of charges, 
the whole stack does.

Some of the Lothlann region is now plains instead of desert.

Some monsters only appear in dungeons (gelatinous cubes, lurkers, etc).

The Complainer has increased his vocabulary.

Themed wilderness now exists - there are five themed wilderness levels, and 
four themed dungeon levels.

Sound support has been upgraded so that it works properly, and Dubtrain's sound 
patch can be included in the same way as for Vanilla.

Monster traps and runes can be laid on grids containing non-artifact objects 
(by destroying the objects).

Uniques are more resistant to stunning.

Bugfixes
--------
Killing dungeon guardians on Angband 100 no longer causes weird stuff.

Squelched gear is dropped more quickly if hide_squelchable is on.

Extended colours show properly in html screenshots.

Autoinscriptions actually work.

Ego squelch settings are reset at the start of each game.

Anfauglith 58 is no longer chock full of artifacts.

Stairs in to Amon Rudh dungeon are no longer ever encased in granite.

Player ghosts work properly.

Crash from buffer overflow with too much gold or experience fixed.

Tree traps no longer appear under the player.
