List of Wizard commands and their effects.  Oangband 0.5.0

There are two ways of fiddling with the game: Wizard mode and debug
mode.  Both mark your savefile and prevent your character from making
the high score list.

	Wizard mode does nothing else except keep your character
alive, provide verbose information on all damage you do to monsters,
and explain why an object disappears.  To enter wizard mode, hold down
the ctrl key and press 'w'.

	Debug mode is a bit more useful.  To enter debug mode for the
first time, hold down the ctrl key and press 'a', and respond yes to
the warning and question the game provides you with.  Any command you
type immediately after holding down the ctrl key and press 'a' will be
processed as a debug command.  The debug commands are:

'ESC':  Oops, I didn't mean to type ctrl-a.  Ignore it.
'"':  Generate spoilers on artifacts (including the player's set of
      random artifacts), objects, and monsters. 
'a':  Cure everything that ails you.
'b':  Asks you for a target on screen, and takes you there.
'c':  Create any object.  This command brings up a screen to choose a
      general object kind, then a screen to select a specific object. 
'C':  Create any artifact.  This command brings up a screen to choose
      a general object kind, then a screen to select a specific artifact. 
'd':  Detect everything.
'e':  Edit character's internal statistics, experience, and gold.
'f':  *Identify* an object.
'g':  Uses a command count to generate that many good or better
      quality objects.  May take a command count. 
'h':  Rerolls all your level bonuses to base hitpoints, and displays a
      figure indicating how they compare to the average (the life
      rating).
'i':  Identify an object.
'j':  Jump to any level.
'k':  Display some screens of information about the player.
'l':  Learn about all objects with a generation level less than or
      equal to the command count.  Requires a command count. 
'm':  Magic map the local area.
'n':  Use the command count to summon the monster with that index.
      Requires a command count.  Consult R_info.txt for monster
      indexes. 
'o':  Tweak an object's quality, pval, bonuses to Skill, Deadliness,
      and armour class, and quantity.  Don't forget to 'a'ccept the
      changes when done.  This command also allows you to roll up a
      very large number of objects, and find out how good your object
      is compared to others of its type.
'p':  Phase door.
'q':  Command used to inspect dungeon feature flags for errors.
's':  Use the command count to try summoning that many random monsters
      or monster groups.  May take a command count. 
't':  Teleport.
'v':  Uses a command count to generate that many excellent or better
      quality objects.  May take a command count.
'w':  Fully wizard-light the level, including vaults. 
'x':  Add the command count to player experience, or double current
      experience and add one.  May take a command count. 
'z':  Either use maximum sighting range or a command count to remove
      all monsters up to that range.  May take a command count. 
'_':  Debugs the monster flow code.


To enter a command count:  type '0', enter the number desired, and press enter.  When prompted for a command, hold down the ctrl key and type 'a', then immediately enter a debug command.