
============================== Commands in detail =============================

     This file first gives basic information about commands in general, than 
provides full information about each command in turn.  Details on special keys 
are available at the bottom.


=== Basic Command Information ===

Canceling a Command:
     Virtually all commands can be cancelled at any point before execution by 
hitting the ESC key.

Command Directions:
     If you issue a command that requires a direction, you will be prompted for
one.  Simply type the appropriate direction key, and the command will activate.

Selecting an Object:
     Angband has an extremely easy-to-use interface for selecting objects in
your backpack (your inventory), on your person (your equipment), or on the 
floor underneath you.  If you issue a command that uses or manipulates any 
item, you can hit the spacebar or type "*" to see a list of all the objects 
that command can accept.  If the command can accept objects both on your 
person and in your backpack, you can hit '/' to cycle between the two.  If an 
object that the command can accept is lying on the floor underneath your feet, 
you can type "_" to use that item.  You then select the exact item by typing 
its index letter; if you want to play it safe, and get an "are you sure" 
message, type the letter in uppercase.
     Spellcasting works very similarly.  You type 'm' or 'p', select a book, 
and select a spell within that book.  You can even use books on the floor.

Choosing Quantities:
     If you issue a command that might logically use more than one object, and
more than one object is available, you will be prompted for a quantity.  Try 
'd'ropping your torches as an example.

Targeting:
     The target command ("*") makes it possible to set up a location or fix a 
monster as the point which you want future missiles and spells to aim for.
Some other commands use the targeting interface, including all those that 
fire magic or ammo, or look around the dungeon.
     After you have typed "*", you have a number of options available to you.  
See command description for more detail.
     If you have the "use old target by default" option on, be careful about 
clearing targets on the floor when done.

Command Counts:
     Any command that can be repeated or that can manipulate more than one
object can take a count.  By default, most that do are automatically given a 
count of 99 (you may change this in the options if you like).  Although most 
commands that usually need a quantity will ask for one, for other commands a 
quantity is only sometimes desired.  Hence command counts.  For example, to 
tunnel into a wall exactly 50 times, you would type a zero ("0"), then "50", 
followed by a return.  Then, type "T" (or ^T).  All commands that use quan-
tities will stop if you are disturbed, accomplish your intended task, hit any 
key, or when the count expires.

Doing More with Less Effort:
     In the help file "keymap.txt" is a section on making keymaps to:
-quickly switch to a shovel or backup weapon, 
-fire a missile or cast commonly used spells with a single keystroke, 
-prevent accidental use of valuable equipment, 
-and do various other useful things


=== Command Descriptions ===

     The following command descriptions are listed as the command name plus 
the key used to activate it in the original keyset.  This is followed by the 
"roguelike" keyset key, if different from the original command key.  Then 
comes a brief description of the command, including information about 
alternative methods of specifying the command in each keyset when needed.

     Some commands use the "repeat count" to automatically repeat the command 
several times, while others use the repeat count to specify a quantity for the 
command, and still others use it as an "argument" of some kind.  Some commands 
are auto-repeated several times if no repeat count is given and the 
"always_repeat" option is set (which it is by default).

     Many commands take no "energy" to perform, while most other commands only 
take energy when they cause the world to change in some way.


--- Inventory Commands ---

Inventory list (i)
     Displays a list of objects being carried but not equipped.  You can carry 
     up to 23 different items, not counting those in your equipment.  Often, 
     many identical objects can be "stacked" into a "pile" which will count as 
     a single item.  Each object has a weight, and if you carry more objects 
     than your strength permits you will begin to slow down.
 
Equipment list (e)
     Displays a list of objects you are currently wielding, wearing, or other-
     wise have immediately to hand.  Your character has twelve slots for 
     equipment, each of which accepts logical kinds of objects.  For example, 
     bows will automatically go in your shooting slot, and amulets around your 
     neck.

Drop an item (d)
     This drops an item from your inventory or equipment onto the dungeon 
     floor.  
     If the floor spot you are standing on has 20 objects already, or contains 
     trees, water, doors, traps, or glyphs of warding, the game will attempt 
     to drop the item onto an adjacent space.  This command may take a 
     quantity, and takes some energy.

Destroy an item (k) or Destroy an item (Ctrl-D)
     This destroys an item in your inventory or on the dungeon floor.  If the 
     selected pile contains multiple objects, you may specify a quantity.  You 
     must always (currently) verify this command.  This command may take a 
     quantity, and takes some energy.

Wear/Wield equipment (w)
     To wear or wield an object in your inventory or from the floor, use this 
     command.  Since only one object can be in each slot at a time, if you 
     wear or wield an item into a slot which is already occupied, the old item 
     will first be taken off, and may in fact be dropped if there is no room 
     for it in your inventory.  This command takes some energy.

Take off equipment (t) or Take off equipment (T)
     Use this command to take off a piece of equipment and return it to your 
     inventory.  Occasionally, you will encounter a cursed item which cannot 
     be easily removed once put on.  These items normally penalize you in some 
     way and cannot be taken off until the curse is removed.  If there is no 
     room in your inventory for the item, your pack will overflow and you will 
     drop the item after taking it off.  This command takes some energy.

Switch primary and secondary weapon (X)
     Actually a keymap, this command exchanges whatever weapon you have wielded 
     with the first weapon in your inventory inscribed {@0} or {@w0}.


--- Movement Commands ---

Walk (with normal pickup) (;)
     This command is activated every time you press a direction key; it moves 
     you one step in the given direction.  This command may take a count, 
     requires a direction, and takes some energy.
     If the auto-pickup option is on, you will be able to pick up objects.  If 
     the option to prompt before picking things up is off, you will automati-
     cally grap everything you encounter until your backpack is full.  If this 
     option is on (recommended after the first few levels of the dungeon), you 
     will be asked about objects; a menu will be available if more than one 
     object is on the floor.

Walk (flip pickup) (-)
     This is just like normal move, except that the "Pick things up" option is 
     inverted.  In other words, if you normally pick up anything you encounter 
     (the default), you will not pick things up when using this command.  If 
     you normally do not pick things up, you will when using this command.  
     This command may take a count, requires a direction, and takes some 
     energy.

Run (.) or Run (,)
     This command is very useful for rapid dungeon exploration.  It will move 
     you in the given direction, following any bends in the corridor, until 
     you either have to make a "choice" between two directions or are 
     disturbed.  This command may take an argument, requires a direction, and 
     takes some energy.  It can also be activated by holding down Shift and 
     pressing a direction key.

Go to a less dangerous area (<)
     Ascends an up staircase you are standing on in a dungeon, or takes a path
     to an area of less danger in the wilderness.  These will both 
     take you to a new area or town.  Some up staircases in dungeons will 
     allow you to go up more than one level.  This command takes some energy.

Go to a more dangerous area (>)
     Descends a down staircase you are standing on in (or into) a dungeon.  
     These will both take you to a new area.  Some down staircases in dungeons 
     will allow you to go down more than one level. This command takes some 
     energy.


--- Resting Commands ---

Stay still (with normal pickup) (,) or Stay still (with normal pickup) (.)
     Stays in the same square for one move.  If you normally pick up objects 
     you encounter, you will pick up whatever you are standing on.  You may 
     also use the "5" key (both keysets).  This command may take a count, and 
     takes some energy.

Get Objects (g)
     Pick up objects and gold on the ground beneath you.  Picking up gold 
     takes no time, and objects take 1/10th of a normal turn each (maximum 
     time cost is a full turn).  You may pick up objects until the ground is 
     empty or your backpack is full.

Rest (R)
     You recover from wounds twice as fast by resting than by repeatedly 
     staying still.  This command can be told to automatically stop after a 
     certain amount of time, or when various conditions are met.  In either 
     case, you always wake up when anything disturbing happens, or when you 
     press any key.  
     After typing 'R', use "*" to rest until your hitpoints and mana are 
     restored, and "&" to rest until you are fully "healed".  This command may 
     accept a command count (used for the number of turns to rest), and takes 
     some energy.

Easy Rest (x)   (not available in the roguelike keyset)
     Actually a keymap, this command automatically makes you rest until your 
     HPs and mana are restored or you are disturbed.  Oangband included it to 
     cut down on wrist stress and allow more effective waiting.


--- Searching Commands ---

Search (s)
     This command can be used to locate hidden traps and secret doors in the 
     spaces adjacent to the player.  More than a single turn of searching will 
     be required in most cases.  You should always search a chest before 
     trying to open it, since they are generally trapped.  This command can 
     take a count, which is useful if you are fairly sure of finding something 
     eventually, since the command stops as soon as anything is found.  This 
     command may take a count, and takes some energy.

Toggle search mode (S) or Toggle search mode (#)
     This command will take you into and out of search mode.  When first 
     pressed, the message "Searching" will appear at the bottom of the screen. 
     You are now taking two turns for each command, one for the command and 
     one turn to search.  This means that you are taking twice the time to 
     move around, and therefore twice the food.  Search mode will 
     automatically turn off if you are disturbed.  You may also turn off 
     search mode by entering the Search Mode command again.


--- Environment and Object Alteration Commands ---

Tunnel (T) or Tunnel (Ctrl-T)
     This command allows you to dig through barriers, obtain treasure found in 
     wall seams, and otherwise alter the environment to your liking.  Races 
     other than Ents would be well advised to be wielding a weapon, preferably 
     something heavy or especially designed for digging, before attempting to 
     tunnel.  This command will also remove a web, either from within it 
     (automatically) or beside it.
     This command may take a count, is affected by the "always_repeat" option, 
     requires a direction, and takes some energy.


Open a door or chest (o)
     If the option to open doors automatically is off, or more than one door 
     or chest can be opened at the moment, you must use this command to open 
     anything.  If the door or object is locked, you will attempt to pick the 
     lock based on your disarming ability.  If you open a trapped chest 
     without disarming the traps first, they will activate.  Some doors will 
     be jammed shut and may have to be bashed open.  You may need several 
     tries to open a door or chest.  This command may take a count, is 
     affected by the "always_repeat" option, usually requires a direction, and 
     takes some energy.

Close a door (c)
     Non-intelligent and some other creatures cannot open doors, so shutting 
     doors can be quite valuable.  Broken doors cannot be closed.  This 
     command may take a count, is affected by the "always_repeat" option, 
     usually requires a direction, and takes some energy.

Jam a door (j) or Spike a door (S)
     Many monsters can simply open closed doors, and can eventually get 
     through a locked door.  You may therefore occasionally want to jam a door 
     shut with iron spikes.  Each spike used on the door will make it harder 
     to bash down the door, up to a limit of eight.  Smaller monsters are less 
     able to bash down doors.  In order to use this command, you must be 
     carrying iron spikes.  This command requires a direction, and takes some 
     energy.

Bash a door (B) or Force a door (f)
     This command allows you to bash down jammed doors.  Your door bashing 
     ability increases with strength.  Bashing open a door can (briefly) throw 
     you off balance.  Doors that are stuck, or which have been jammed closed 
     with spikes can only be opened by bashing, and all closed doors can be 
     bashed open if desired.  Bashing a door open may permanently break it so 
     that it can never be closed.  This command may take a count, is affected 
     by the "always_repeat" option, requires a direction, and takes some 
     energy.

Disarm a trap or chest / Desanctify a glyph (D)
     You can attempt to disarm known traps or glyphs on the floor or on 
     chests.  If you have a very high disarming skill, disarming by hand can 
     actually be safer than using magic, but for most players, magic is 
     preferable.  If you fail to disarm a trap, there is a chance that you 
     will blunder and set the trap off.  This command may take a count, is 
     affected by the "always_repeat" option, requires a direction, and takes 
     some energy.

Alter (+)
     This special command allows the use of a single keypress to select any of 
     the alteration commands above (attack, tunnel, bash, open, disarm,
     close), and, by using keymaps, to combine this keypress with 
     directions.  For (non-shapeshifted) Rogues, it also allows stealing; for
     Rogues and those with the "Trap Setting" specialty ability, it allow the
     setting traps.  In  general, this allows the use of the control key plus
     the appropriate direction key (including the roguelike direction keys in 
     roguelike mode) as a kind of generic "alter the terrain feature of an
     adjacent grid" command.  This command may take a count, is affected by the
     "always_repeat" option, requires a direction, and takes some energy.


--- Ability Interaction Commands ---

View abilites/Gain specialty (O)
     Use this command to get information about your existing race, class, and
     specialty abilities or to learn new specialty abilities.  If both options
     are possible, you will be given a choice.  When you are able to learn new
     specialty abilities, the word "Spec." will appear on the status line at 
     the bottom of the screen.


--- Spell and Prayer Commands ---

Browse a book (b) or Peruse a book (P)
     Most classes use spellbooks, and can scan the spells in books of their 
     realm with this command.  Warriors get a special information screen 
     giving information about their pseudo-probing ability.

Gain new spells or prayers (G)
     Use this command to actually learn new spells or prayers.  When you are 
     able to learn new spells or prayers, the word "Study" will appear on the 
     status line at the bottom of the screen.  If you have a book in your 
     possession, containing spells or prayers which you may learn, then you 
     may choose to study that book.  If you are a mage, rogue, druid, ranger, 
     necromancer, or assassin, you may actually choose which spell to study.  
     If you are a priest or paladin, tha Valar will choose a prayer for you.  
     This command takes some energy.
     If you can learn new spells and you can also learn new specialty abilities
     the "Study" notification will be replaced by the "Spec." notification.  
     You can still gain spells, even if you choose not to specialize.

Cast a spell or Pray a Prayer (m and p)
     To cast a spell, you must have previously learned the spell and must have 
     in your inventory a book from which the spell can be read.  Each spell 
     has a chance of failure which starts out fairly large but decreases as 
     you gain levels.  If you don't have enough mana to cast a spell, you will 
     be prompted for confirmation.  If you decide to go ahead, the chance of 
     failure is greatly increased, and you may lose a point of constitution.  
     Since you must read the spell from a book, you cannot be blind or 
     confused while casting, and there must be some light present.  This 
     command takes some energy.
     Once Warriors attain experience level 35, they may pseudo-probe monsters 
     using this command.


--- Player Manipulation Commands ---

End/Default shapechange (])
     This command will return you to your normal state, if you have previously 
     transformed yourself into any creature.  In addition, if your character
     has an intrinsic ability to shapechange (ie the Beorning player race)
     this command will initiate the shape change.

Move house (H) or ($)
     Given in a town, this will move your house to that town.  Some towns have
     a wider range of shops than others, so it is advisable to move to a large
     town at some point.

--- Object Manipulation Commands ---

Eat some food (E)
     You may use this command to eat food in your inventory or from the floor, 
     which you must do regularly to prevent starvation.  As you grow hungry, a 
     message will appear at the bottom of the screen saying "Hungry".  If you
	 go hungry long enough, you will become weak, then start fainting, and
	 eventually will die of starvation.  This command takes some energy.

Fuel your lantern/torch (F)
     If you are using a torch and have more torches in your pack, or you are 
     using a lantern and have flasks of oil in your pack, then your can 
     "refuel" them with this command.  In general, two flasks will fully fuel 
     a lantern and two torches will fully fuel a torch.  This command takes 
     some energy.

Quaff a potion (q)
     Use this command to drink a potion.  Potions affect the player in various 
     ways, but the effects are not always immediately obvious.  This command 
     takes some energy.

Read a scroll (r)
     Use this command to read a scroll.  Scroll spells usually have an area 
     effect, except for a few cases where they act on other objects.  Reading 
     a scroll causes the parchment to disintegrate as the scroll takes effect. 
     Most scrolls which prompt for more information can be aborted (by 
     pressing escape), which will stop reading the scroll before it 
     disintegrates.  This command takes some energy.
 
Inscribe an object ({) 
     This command inscribes a string on an object.  The inscription is 
     displayed inside curly braces after the object description.  The 
     inscription is limited to the particular object (or pile) and is not 
     automatically transferred to all similar objects, unless the "Merge 
     Inscriptions when Stacking" option is on.  Certain inscriptions have a 
     meaning to the game - see the help file "objs-mon.txt".

Uninscribe an object (})
     This command removes the inscription on an object.  This command will 
     have no effect on some "fake" inscriptions added by the game itself (such 
     as "{cursed}").


--- Magical Object Commands ---

Activate an artifact (A)
     You have heard rumors of special weapons and armor deep in the Pits, 
     items that can let you breath fire like a dragon or light rooms with just 
     a thought.  Should you ever be lucky enough to find such an item, this 
     command will let you activate its special ability.  Special abilities can 
     only be used if you are wearing or wielding the item.  This command takes 
     some energy.

Aim a wand (a) or Zap a wand (z)
     Aim the wand you choose.  If you succeed in using it, the wand will fire. 
     This command requires a direction, can use a target, and takes some 
     energy.

Use a staff (u) or Zap a staff (Z)
     Attempt to use a staff.  If your magical device skill is high enough, the 
     staff will work.  This command takes some energy.
 
Zap a rod (z) or Activate a rod (a)
     Attempt to use a rod.  If your magical device skill is high enough, the 
     rod will activate.  This command may require a direction (depending on 
     the type of rod, and whether you are aware of its type), may sometimes 
     use a target, and takes some energy.


--- Throwing and Missile Weapons ---

Fire an item (f) or Fire an item (t)
     You may throw ammo carried by your character, if you are wielding a 
     missile weapon that accepts it.  See the help file "combat.txt" for more 
     information.  Firing requires a direction, may use targeting (type "*" at 
     the direction prompt), and takes some energy.

Throw an item (v)
     You may throw any object carried by your character.  See the help file 
     "combat.txt" for more information.  Throwing requires a direction, may 
     use targeting (type "*" at the direction prompt), and takes some energy.

Targeting Mode (*)
     This command allows you to aim your spells and such directly at a 
     specific monster or grid.  See the "targeting" section above for usage 
     tips.

     Options available within targeting mode:
          -ESCAPE and "q" :  Exit targeting mode.  Cancel target.
          -"p" :  Return to the player.  Start looking at all grids.
          -"o" :  Stay in place.  Start looking at all grids.
          -"m" :  Start looking only at monsters (if any monsters are around).
          -"+" :  Look at next monster or interesting grid.
          -"-" :  Look at previous monster or interesting grid.
          -"r" :  (If cursor is on a monster) recall monster information.
          -"t" :  Target grid or monster.

     
--- Looking Commands ---

Full screen map (M)
     This command will show a map of the entire area, reduced by a factor of 
     nine, on the screen.  Only the major features will be visible 
     because of the scale, so even some important objects may not show up on 
     the map.  This is particularly useful in locating where the stairs or 
     paths are relative to your current position, or for identifying 
     unexplored areas of the dungeon.

Locate player on map (L) or Where is the player (W)
     This command lets you scroll your map around, looking at all sectors of 
     the current stage, until you press escape, at which point the map will 
     be re-centered on the player if necessary.  To scroll the map around, 
     simply press any of the "direction" keys.  The top line will display the 
     sector location, and the offset from your current sector.

Look around (l) or Examine things (x)
     This command is used to look around at nearby monsters (to determine 
     their type and health) and objects (to determine their type).  It can 
     also be used to find out what objects (if any) are under monsters, and if 
     a monster is currently inside a wall, and what is under the player.  See 
     the description of targeting mode for more information.

Observe an item (I)
     This command provides extra object information.  If you know nothing 
     about the object, you see generic information about the object kind.  If 
     you have identified or otherwise know the object, a object description 
     will also often appear.  If you have fully *identified* an object, you 
     will recall all the object attributes.  This command will also give a 
     summary of damage dealt by weapons and ammunition.


--- Message Commands ---

Repeat level feeling (Ctrl-F)
     Repeats the feeling about the dungeon level that you got when you first 
     entered the level.

View previous messages (Ctrl-P)
     This command shows you all the recent messages.  You can scroll through 
     them, or exit with ESCAPE.

Take notes (:)
     This command allows you to take notes, which will then appear in your 
     message list (prefixed with "Note:").


--- Game Status Commands ---

Character Description (C)
     Brings up a full description of your character, including your skill 
     levels, your current and potential stats, and various other information.  
     From this screen, you can change your name or use the file character 
     description command to save your character status to a file.  That 
     command saves additional information, including your background, your 
     inventory, and the contents of your house.

Check knowledge (~)
     This command allows you to ask about the knowledge possessed by your 
     character.  Currently, this includes being able to list all known 
     artifacts, uniques, objects, and the contents of your home.

Time of day (Ctrl-T) or (')
     Displays the day and hour/minute.


--- Saving and Exiting Commands ---

Save and Quit (Ctrl-X)
     To save your game so that you can return to it later, use this command.  
     Save files will also be generated (hopefully) if the game crashes due to 
     a system error.  After you die, you can use your savefile to play again 
     with the same options and such.

Save (Ctrl-S)
     This command saves the game but doesn't exit FAangband.  Use this 
     frequently if you are paranoid about having your computer crash (or your 
     power go out) 
     while you are playing.

Quit (commit suicide) (Q or Ctrl-K)
     Kills your character and exits Angband.  You will be prompted to make 
     sure you really want to do this, and then asked to verify that choice.  
     Note that dead characters are dead forever.


--- User pref file commands ---

Interact with options (=)
     Allow you to interact with options.  Note that using the "cheat" options 
     will mark your savefile as unsuitable for the high score list.  You may 
     change normal options using the "X" and "Y" user pref commands.  The 
     "window" options allow you to specify what should be drawn in any of the 
     special sub-windows (not available on all platforms).  See the help file 
     "optdesc.txt" for more information.

Interact with keymaps (@)
     Allow you to interact with keymaps.  You may load or save keymaps from
	 user pref files, create keymaps of various types, or define keymaps.  You
	 must define a "current action", shown at the bottom of the screen, before
	 you attempt to use any of the "create keymap" commands, which use that 
     "current action" as their action.

Interact with visuals (%)
     Allow you to interact with visuals.  You may load or save visuals from 
     user pref files, or modify the attr/char mappings for the monsters, 
     objects, and terrain features.  You must use the "redraw" command 
     (Ctrl-R) to redraw the map after changing attr/char mappings.

Interact with colors (&)
     Allow the user to interact with colors.  This command only works on some 
     systems.
 

--- Help ---

Help (?)
     Brings up the FAangband on-line help system.  Note that the help files 
     are just text files in a particular format, and that other help files may 
     be available on the Net.

Identify Symbol (/)
     Use this command to find out what a character represents.  For instance, 
     by pressing "/.", you will learn that the "." symbol stands for a floor 
     spot.

     There are three special symbols you can use with the Identify Symbol 
     command to access specific parts of your monster memory.  Typing Ctrl-A 
     when asked for a symbol will recall details about all monsters, typing 
     Ctrl-U will recall details about all unique monsters, and typing Ctrl-N 
     will recall details about all non-unique monsters.

     If the character stands for a creature, you are asked if you want to 
     recall details.  If you answer yes, information about the creatures you 
     have encountered with that symbol is shown in the Recall window if 
     available, or on the screen if not.  You can also answer "k" to see the 
     list sorted by number of kills, or "p" to see the list sorted by dungeon 
     level the monster is normally found on.  Pressing ESCAPE at any point 
     will exit this command.

Game Version (V)
        This command will tell you what version of FAangband you are playing.


--- Extra Commands ---

Toggle Choice Window (Ctrl-E) 
     Toggles the display in any sub-windows (if available) which are 
     displaying your inventory or equipment.

Redraw Screen (Ctrl-R)
     This command adapts to various changes in global options, and redraws all 
     of the windows.  It is normally only necessary in abnormal situations, 
     such as after changing the visual attr/char mappings, or enabling 
     "graphics" mode.

Load screen dump (left-paren)
     This command loads a "snap-shot" of the current screen from a file 
     and displays it on the screen.

Save screen dump (right-paren)
     This command dumps a "snap-shot" of the current screen to a file 
     including encoded color information.

Repeat last command (n) or ([)
     Repeats the previous command, selecting the same objects, spells, etc,
     you typed.


=== Special Keys - Not modified for FAangband ===
 
        Certain special keys may be intercepted by the operating system or
the host machine, causing unexpected results.  In general, these special keys
are control keys, and often, you can disable their special effects.

        If you are playing on a UNIX or similar system, then Ctrl-C will
interrupt Angband.  The second and third interrupt will induce a warning
bell, and the fourth will induce both a warning bell and a special message,
since the fifth will quit the game, after killing your character.  Also,
Ctrl-Z will suspend the game, and return you to the original command shell,
until you resume the game with the "fg" command.  There is now a compilation
option to force the game to prevent the "double ctrl-z escape death trick".
The Ctrl-\ and Ctrl-D and Ctrl-S keys should not be intercepted.
 
        It is often possible to specify "control-keys" without actually
pressing the control key, by typing a caret ("^") followed by the key.
This is useful for specifying control-key commands which might be caught
by the operating system as explained above.

        Pressing backslash ("\") before a command will bypass all keymaps,
and the next keypress will be interpreted as an "underlying command" key,
unless it is a caret ("^"), in which case the keypress after that will be
turned into a control-key and interpreted as a command in the underlying
angband keyset.  The backslash key is useful for creating keymap actions
which are not affected by any keymap definitions that may be in force, for
example, the sequence "\" + "." + "6" will always mean "run east", even if
the "." key has been mapped to a different underlying command.

        The "0" and "^" and "\" keys all have special meaning when entered
at the command prompt, and there is no "useful" way to specify any of them
as an "underlying command", which is okay, since they would have no effect.

        For many input requests or queries, the special character ESCAPE
will abort the command.  The "[y/n]" prompts may be answered with "y" or
"n", or escape.  The "-more-" message prompts may be cleared (after reading
the displayed message) by pressing ESCAPE, SPACE, RETURN, LINEFEED, or by
any keypress, if the "quick_messages" option is turned on.
