
============================= Equipment Attributes ============================

     All effective combat methods other than Druid bare-handed attacks require 
equipment, and all benefit greatly from various qualities that your equipped 
items may possess.  Defence is similarly equipment-dependent.

     This file explains every attribute of any wearable item you might 
encounter in your adventures.  Some of the special attributes are quite rare.



--- Ordinary Attributes ---

Example 1:  A Glaive (3d4) (+6, +4) [8, +0]

Bonus to Skill:
     The glaive above increases melee Skill by 6. This bonus improves your 
chance to strike a monster and the number and quality of critical hits.  Apart 
from rare gloves, armours seldom have bonuses to Skill.

Bonus to Deadliness:
     The glaive above increases melee Deadliness by 4.  This increases the 
damage of every blow you land.  Apart from rare gloves, armours seldom have 
bonuses to Deadliness.

Bonus to Base Armour Class:
     All armours have bonuses to base armour class.  Glaives and some other 
weapons have bonuses to base armour class, usually because they help keep 
monsters further away from you, or parry blows.  The example above increases 
this value by 8.

Bonus, Plus to Armour Class:
     Armour of unusually good quality or that is magical also increases your 
plus to armour class.  This adds to your total protection value.  Only rare 
weapons do the same.


--- Attributes that can be increased or decreased by a number ---

Stat Bonuses:
     Any kind of special wearable item may affect one or more stats.  See the 
help file "abilattr.txt" to find out more about what altering a stat does.

Sustain Stats:
     Any kind of special wearable item may sustain one or more stats.  This 
ensures that the attacks of your foes never lowers that stat.

Magic Mastery:
     Certain amulets and gloves improve your skills with magical devices and 
activatable items.

Stealth:
     Certain cloaks, boots, and (more rarely) other items lessen the amount 
of noise you make when moving around the dungeon.  This is very handy for 
avoiding fights and getting in the first hit.  Stealth also reduces the 
noise you make in combat, but the effect is less noticeable.

Searching:
     Some rings, headgear, and various other items improve your chances to 
reveal secret doors and find traps before they find you.

Infravision:
     Some headgear and (more rarely) other items increase the range at which 
you can see warm-blooded creatures, even those that would otherwise be 
invisible.

Tunnelling:
     Some gloves and weapons allow you to dig through rock more effectively.  
All special digging tools have a bonus to tunnelling.

Speed:
     Boots, rings, and weapons that hasten you are rare and powerful, for a 
fast player can perform several actions in the time it used to take to do just 
one.  Players moving at speed -10 are half as fast as normal, at +10 are twice 
as fast as normal, and at +20 are three times as fast as normal.  The maximum 
useful speed is (roughly) +40.

--- Missile Weapon Qualities ---

Extra Might:
     Rare missile launchers have a greater than normal missile damage multi-
plier.  For example: a "Sling of Extra Might (x3)" multiplies damage, not by 
two like lesser slings, but by three.  The true missile weapon multiplier is 
never known for sure until the object is identified.

Extra Shots:
     Rare missile launchers may allow the player to shoot more quickly than 
normal.  Each shot takes a fraction of a turn, making your target appear to 
move in slow motion.  Some classes get innate extra shots.


--- Melee Weapon and Missile Ammunition Qualities ---

Note:  Only the largest applicable multiplier is used.

Slay Animals:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 1.7 against natural 
creatures.  For example, a Broadsword of Slay Animal would normally roll 2 
dice, but 3.4 against animals.  The ".4" is significant.  Rare weapons of 
*Slay Animal* multiply the number of dice rolled by 2.

Slay Evil:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 1.5 against evil 
creatures.  
(exception:  *Slay Evil* weapons multiply the dice by 1.7).

Slay Undead:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 2.0 against the undead.  
(exception:  *Slay Undead* weapons multiply the dice by 2.5).

Slay Demons:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 2.0 against demons.  
(exception:  *Slay Demon* weapons multiply the dice by 2.5).

Slay Orcs:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 2.0 against orcs.  
(exception:  *Slay Orc* weapons multiply the dice by 2.5).

Slay Trolls:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 2.0 against trolls.  
(exception:  *Slay Troll* weapons multiply the dice by 2.5).

Slay Giants:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 2.0 against giants.  
(exception:  *Slay Giant* weapons multiply the dice by 2.5).

Slay Dragons:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 2.0 against dragons.  
(exception:  *Slay Dragon* weapons multiply the dice by 2.5).


Poison Brand:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 1.7 against monsters 
who do not resist poison.

Lightning Brand:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 1.7 against monsters 
who do not resist electricity.

Flame Brand:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 1.7 against monsters 
who do not resist fire.  Weapons of the Balrog multiply the dice by three.

Frost Brand:
     Multiplies the number of damage dice rolled by 1.7 against monsters 
who do not resist frost.


--- Miscellaneous Weapon Attributes ---


Perfect Balance:
     This weapon can be thrown with unusual force, doubling the number of 
damage dice rolled should it hit.  This bonus is cumulative with slays or 
brands.

Earthquake:
     Rarely, a weapon will possess the earthquake brand.  Every time you hit a 
monster for large amounts of damage using one of these, the walls and floors 
of the immediate neighborhood are rearranged.  This can put a wall between you 
and nasty breathers, but most people find this quality to be really annoying.

Two-handed Wield Required:
     Glaives, Halberds, and Quarterstaffs require two hands to wield.

Two-handed Wield Desired:
     A fair number of large, powerful weapons must be wielded in two hands 
unless the player has amazing strength (normally around 18/140, varying with 
weapon weight).

Blessed:
     Priests and Paladins normally cannot wield edged weapons and polearms 
comfortably, unless they are especially blessed for their use.

Chaotic:
     These uncanny weapons can occasionally produce chaotic effects

--- Immunities ---

     If you should ever be fortunate enough to find a piece of equipment that 
grants immunity to an element, you will take no damage from that element.  Be 
warned that immunity does not extend to your backpack; the stuff you are 
carrying in inventory can still be destroyed on rare occasions.  Under certian
circumstances, characters that are vulnerable to an element (i.e. Ent with
Fire) may still take a tiny amount of damage through immunity.

Immunity to Acid:
     You take no damage from acid.  Staffs, missiles, weapons, armour, and 
scrolls in your backpack become highly resistant to destruction.

Immunity to Electricity:
     You take no damage from electricity.  Rings, wands, and rods in your back-
pack become highly resistant to destruction.

Immunity to Cold:
     You take no damage from cold.  Potions in your backpack become highly 
resistant to destruction.

Immunity to Fire:
     You take no damage from fire.  Spellbooks, scrolls, staffs, and burnable 
weapons, missiles, and armour in your backpack become highly resistant to 
destruction.


--- Resistances ---

     Resistances from equipment can be combined with resistance from other
equipment and "temporary" resistance sources such as spell and potions.  Your
current level of resistance can be seen in the Character Description screen
(type 'C h').  In general, any positive level of resistance will block most
side effects from that damage type.

Resist Acid:
     You take reduced damage from acid.  Staffs, missiles, weapons, armour, 
and scrolls in your backpack become a little more resistant to destruction.

Resist Electricity:
     You take reduced damage from electricity.  Rings, wands, and rods in 
your backpack become a little more resistant to destruction.

Resist Cold:
     You take one thirds damage from cold.  Potions in your backpack become 
a little more resistant to destruction.

Resist Fire:
     You take reduced damage from fire.  Spellbooks, scrolls, staffs, and 
burnable weapons, missiles, and armour in your backpack become a little more 
resistant to destruction.

Resist Poison:
     You take reduced damage and ongoing damage from poison.  Note that
multipe sources of Resist Poison are needed to completely prevent the
ongoing damaging.

Resist Light:
     The damage you take from light is reduced.  You cannot be blinded by 
bright light.

Resist Darkness:
     The damage you take from darkness is reduced.  You cannot be blinded by 
darkness.

Resist Sound:
     The damage you take from sound is reduced.  You cannot be stunned by 
sound or by a few other kinds of distance attacks.

Resist Shards:
     The damage you take from blasts of shards is reduced.  You cannot be cut 
by shards.

Resist Nexus:
     The damage you take from nexus attacks is reduced.  You cannot be 
randomly teleported by nexus, and will sometimes resist being warped around by 
gravity.

Resist Nether:
     The damage you take from nether is reduced.  You cannot lose experience 
to nether.

Resist Chaos:
     The damage you take from chaos is reduced, and you are immune to all the 
nasty things chaos can do to you.  This resistance does not make you resistant 
to confusion.

Resist Disenchantment:
     Rarest of all the resistances, this reduces damage from disenchantment 
attacks and renders your equipment immune to disenchantment.


--- Survival Attributes ---

Resist Fear:
     Renders you fearless.

Resist Blindness:
     Protects you from being blinded.

Resist Confusion:
     Makes you incapable of being confused.  Also reduces damage from blasts 
of confusion.


--- Character Qualities ---

Slow Digestion:
     Reduces your need to consume food.

Feather Fall:
     Protects you from all pit traps, however deadly, and reduces the damage 
you take when walking on lava and the chance for you to be warped around by 
gravity.

Light:
     Some weapons and helms shine with inner light.  Wearing any number of 
such objects will increase your illumination radius by one.

Regeneration:
     Players who regenerate recover hitpoints twice as quickly as normal, 
and mana 3/2rds as quickly.  They also need to eat more.

Telepathy (ESP):
     It is not easy to acquire this, but players who do can see smart monsters 
nearby.  Stupid monsters never appear, and "kind of smart" monsters only 
appear occasionally.

See Invisible:
     Allows you to see and target monsters invisible to ordinary sight.

Free Action:
     Protects you from paralyzation and most slowing attacks.  Because paraly-
zation can instantly kill you, keep an eye out for this important survival aid.

Hold Life:
     Offers a high degree of protection from attacks that drain experience.  
Such attacks will either have no effect, or drain much less exp.

Darkness:
     Allows you to see in the dark.

--- Curses  ---

Random Teleportation:
     Some objects, especially rings, amulets, and boots randomly take control 
of your movement and whisk you around the dungeon. 

No Teleportation:
     When wearing or wielding an object with this curse, you will be unable to
use any form of teleportation.

Permanent aggravation:
     Aggravation effectively reduces your stealth to nil, immediately waking 
up all monsters nearby. Some rings and amulets possess curses that aggravate, 
and some weapons and armours are so powerful that no creature can ignore them.

Random aggravation:
     Objects with this curse don't aggravate all the time, but will 
occasionally let out a shriek that wakes and hastes surrounding monsters.

Slow regeneration:
     Your recovery of hit points and spell points seems to take forever.

Permanent fear:
     Unless you recover your courage by spell, potion or other equipment you 
will be too terrified to hit monsters in melee.

Fast digestion:
     You feel hungry much more quickly.

Random poisoning:
     Objects bearing this curse will occasionally poison you.

Random poison cloud:
     Will occasionally envelop you in a toxic cloud.

Random cuts:
     An item with this curse will sometimes injure you slightly.

Random bad cuts:
     An item with this curse will sometimes give you a bad cut.

Random hallucination:
     From time to time you will start to hallucinate.

Drop weapon:
     When you're least expecting it your weapon will leap from your hands.

Attract demon:
     Demons will be randomly attracted to you.

Attract undead:
     This curse randomly calls the dead from their graves or attracts lost 
spirits.

Sticky carry:
     An item with this curse cannot be dropped from your inventory.

Sticky wield:
     An item with this curse cannot be taken off once wielded.

Paralyse:
     You will occasionally be paralysed for a turn unless you have immunity
from paralysis.

Paralyse all:
     You will occasionally be paralysed for a turn even if you have immunity
from paralysis.

Drain Exp:
     Objects that drain experience are perilous, because they slowly but 
surely erase your accumulated memories.  Of course, you can keep killing 
monsters to replace the experience which you lose.

Drain Mana:
     You will occasionally lose some mana; best hope you weren't relying on it.

Drain stat:
     This curse will occasionally drain one of your unsustained stats.

Drain charge:
     Items like this will sometimes suck the magical energy out of your magic
devices.

--- Ego-Weapons and Armours ---

     Some rare weapons and armours have special abilities.  These are called 
ego items, and are feared by great and meek.  Ego-item information is not 
provided in the standard FAangband help files, because you can 'I'nspect any 
normally identified ego-item to learn everything about it.

--- Dragon Scale Mails ---

     These extremely rare pieces of armour come in many different colors, each 
protecting you against the relevant dragons.  Naturally they are all resistant 
to acid damage.  They also you to take the form of a dragon.  In dragon form
you have heightened abilities and can occasionally breathe as a dragon would!

--- Artifacts ---

     There are rumors of incredibly rare "artifact" armours which are even 
more powerful than ego armour.  Some artifact are standard, and you may 
already know of their fame, while others will certainly be unfamiliar to you 
and will need to be fully identified and checked for curses.

     In addition, a small number of artifacts, known as Set Items are designed
to be used in conjunction with related items.  Equipping an entire set of these
items will grant the wearer additional bonuses and abilities.  Item sets
generally  consist of two items, but may include more.  A set item is revealed
when identified.
