
============================= Objects and Monsters =============================

     The mines of Angband and the surrounding areas of Beleriand are full of 
objects just waiting to be picked up and used.  The treasures of fallen 
kingdoms, dragon's hordes, heirlooms, wizard's stashes, and the plunder from 
the First Age ofthe world and before unite with the scattered earthly 
possessions of all the foolish adventurers that died before you to offer 
unimaginable wealth for those bold enough to seize it.


Your inventory (backpack) and equipment (your person):
          You pick up objects by moving on top on them (if you have the 
      "auto_pickup" option on), or using the 'g'et command.  You may carry up to 
     23 different items or piles of items, and have 12 areas of your body where 
     wearable equipment may go.  If you somehow manage to stuff 24 items into 
     your pack, for example, by removing a helmet from your head while your pack 
     is full, then your pack will overflow and the most recently added item will 
     fall out and onto the ground.
          Carry too much weight, and you will begin to slow down, making it 
     easier for monsters to catch up to you.  The point at which your load thus 
     hinders you depends on your strength.

Your quiver:
          Your equipment includes a quiver, which may hold up to ten different 
     kinds of ammo or throwing weapons.  Once placed in the quiver (using the 
     wield command), ammo and weapons normally sort in the quiver slots just 
     as they do in the packpack.  You may lock them into a specific slot, and 
     make ranged combat a lot more convenient, by inscribing them with 
     inscriptions similar to "@1", or "@f1", or "@v1".  Wherever you 
     store it, ammo still takes up space; for every 99 missiles (or fraction 
     thereof) that you place in the quiver slots, you lose an inventory slot. 
     Throwing weapons take the space of 5 pieces of ammo each.  Any such slots 
     will be clearly marked in your inventory listing.  Ammo on the floor will 
     automatically combine with similar items in the quiver, which makes 
     cleaning up after a big fight much easier.


Specific Types of Objects:
          Many objects in the world have special commands for their 
     use.  Wands must be Aimed, staves must be Used, scrolls must be Read, and 
     potions must be Quaffed.  You may, in general, not only use items in your 
     pack, but also items on the ground, if you are standing on top of them.

     Wands:
          In FAangband, known wands stack, combining their charges.  Such a
		  stack may be heavier, but can be recharged more safely and
		  effectively.
     Staffs:
          Staffs do not combine their charges and only stack if they happen to 
          have the same number of charges (they take up plenty of space in your 
          backpack).  If stacked, the number of charges that they display is 
          prefixed by a quantity indicator (e.g. "(2x 13 charges)", which shows 
          that each of two staffs have 13 charges.  Although bulky, staffs often 
          have plenty of charges and recharge well.
     Rods:
          Rods always stack.  A stack of rods with at least one charging member 
          will show an appropriate inscription.  When zapped, a rod is "timed 
          out" for a given number of turns.  Each recharging rod in a stack 
          contributes to the stack's total recharge rate; if three out of five 
          rods are charging, the stack's total timeout period will decrease by 
          three per normal player turn.  
          Note:  In FAangband, rods are not invulnerable...

     Chests:
          Chests are difficult and dangerous to open, as they contain both
		  traps and locks, but the adventurer that opens one may be rewarded
		  handsomely.

     Scroll of Word of Recall:
          The Scroll of Word of Recall deserves special mention.  Read away 
     	  from home, it brings you back to your home town.  Read in your home
		  town, it takes you to one of four points you have been to.  This
		  spell takes a little time to take effect, so don't expect it to save
		  you in a crisis.  Should you mistakenly read a Scroll of Word of
		  Recall, you may cancel it by reading another.

Object Inscriptions:
      Use the '{' and '}' keys to inscribe and uninscribe objects.
	  Inscriptions go very well with keymaps:  See the help file "keymap.txt".

     To designate a main and backup weapon:
          Inscribe both with "@0" (or "@w0").  The 'X' command will replace 
          whatever melee weapon you are wielding with another so inscribed.  
          You may also inscribe these or other weapons with "@1", etc., and 
          wield weapons 0, 1, 2 and so on as desired.

     To prevent accidental use of an object with any command:
          Inscribe it with "!x", where 'x' is the letter you type to issue that 
          command.

     To be very paranoid about an object:
          Inscribe it with "!*".

     To set up a wand that is always aimed with the same set of keystrokes:
          Inscribe it with "@a#", or "@z#" in the roguelike keyset, replacing 
          the '#' with whatever digit you desire.  This allows you to set up 
          keymaps to, say, check for traps instantly.  Similar inscriptions
		  make archery very convenient, and make certain that spellbooks are
		  always accessed using the same keystrokes.

     To get notification when an object that recharges automatically is ready 
     for use:
          Inscribe it with "!!".

     Inscriptions for fun and profit:
          Try inscribing the first monster killed by a weapon, hidden object 
     abilities (once you discover them), and where you found the item or who 
     dropped it.

          The game also inscribes objects automatically.  Wands and staves which 
     are known to be empty will be inscribed with "empty".  Objects which have 
     been tried at least once but haven't been identified yet will be inscribed 
     with "tried".  Artifacts that you discovered by trying to destroy them 
     will be inscribed "special".  Items purchased at a discount are so marked.
     Some of these inscriptions will disappear when the item is identified, 
     and you may overwrite others.

Pseudo-ID:
          All adventurers are able to automatically gain information about many 
     equippable objects, but some classes learn more about objects this way 
     than others.  Priests, Mages, Druids, and Necromancers can tell whether 
     an item is "good" (with magical enhancements of some sort), or "dubious" 
     (items with some disadvantages).  Warriors, Rogues, Paladins, Rangers and 
     Assassins can learn whether an item is "perilous" (a powerful item with 
     some disadvantages), "dubious", "average" (an item with no magical 
     bonuses or penalties), "good", "excellent" (an item that grants special 
     bonuses or abilities), or even "special" (an artifact).

Cursed Objects:
          Some objects, mainly armor and weapons, are cursed.  There are many 
     different curses, some of them more deadly than others - for more 
     information on the different types, see the help file "equip.txt".  Some
     curses have the potential to be removed; curse removal on these does not 
     always work, though, and attempting again may destroy the item (even 
     artifacts).  The curses on many items and standard artifacts are known
     immediately on identification, but there are other items where the curses
     need to be discovered by use or by a Scroll of Reveal Curses.

ID by Use:
          Most objects - particularly those which can be worn or wielded - can 
     be learnt about by using them.  Once you have learnt all the properties 
     of an item it will be marked as fully known; if you're in more of a hurry, 
     you can use the Identify spell.

Sensation ID:
	  Most rings and amulets have magical properties.  Once you are aware
     of a property of a ring or amulet you are wearing, you will be able to
     recognise that property on other jewellery items.


=== Monsters: Monster Memories, Stealth, and Player Ghosts ===

Your Monster Memory:
          When you see a monster for the first time, all you know are its 
     physical attributes and whatever information the monster description may 
     provide.  As you fight and kill monsters, use various attacks on them, 
     probe them with magic, and get killed by them, you learn more about their 
     strengths and weaknesses.

Stealth:
          Characters have a base chance to wake up monsters that increases as 
     player speed does (since a speedy character will perform more actions 
     making noise every time a monster gets to take its turn) and greatly 
     decreases as stealth improves.  This value can be modified:  combat and 
     bashing boors makes it more likely that monsters will awake (especially 
     those in line of sight), and resting makes it less likely.  The higher 
     your base stealth, the less extra noise you will make in combat.

Player Ghosts:
          Player ghosts vary from game to game depending on the name, sex, 
     race, and class of the adventurer or Angband/Oangband/FAangband Hero 
     whose bones file was used during ghost creation.  Should your character 
     die, information about him will often be added to a new bones file, 
     inside the folder /lib/bones, and a future game might bring him back from 
     the dead...

