
============================= Specialty Abilities =============================

Specialty abilities are a way of ehancing and customizing characters.  Each
character will gain only a few specialties, so choose the ones that are the
most fun for you and best complement your playing style.

By choosing specialties, you can make your Warrior a melee machine, an archer, 
or high-AC  tank.  You can increase the mana and magical abilities of your 
spellcasters or improve their normally weak defenses.  Classes with unique 
abilites such as the Rogue's monster trap and the Druid's unarmed combat can
choose specialties to further improve these abilities.

Each character can gain a specialty ability at first level, and additional 
abilities with each of the first two defeats of quest monsters.  Warriors gain 
an additional specialty at level 1.  Use the 'O' command to gain new 
specialties or view your current list of race, class, and specialty abilities.

=== The Specialties ===

Armor Mastery: Increase body armor base AC.  Most effective with heavy body 
armor.  Available to Warriors, and Paladins.

Armor Proficiency: Reduced mana penalties for heavy armor.  Allows more armor 
to be worn without penalty, and reduces the penalty per pound of additional 
armor.  Available to Mages, Necromancers, and Druids.

Armsman: More critical hits with melee weapons.  Reduces reliance on high
combat skill for criticals.  Available to Warriors, Paladins, Assassins,
Rogues, Priests, and Rangers.

Athletics: Increases Dexterity and Constitution and often prevents them from 
being reduced.  Available to Warriors, Rogues, Paladins, Assassins, and
Rangers.

Beguile: Increases effectiveness of confusion, slow, sleep, fear, and turning
attacks.  Works with spells and devices.  Available to Mages, Necromancers, 
and Druids.

Channeling: Increases the effects of caster-level dependent spells.  The bonus
is strongly dependant on the casters current mana - full mana yields the
maximum bonus.  Available to Mages, Priests, Necromancers, and Druids.

Clarity: Increases Intellegence and Wisdom and often prevents them from being 
reduced.  Available Mages, Priests, Necromancers, and Druids.

Evasion: Gives a good chance to avoid melee attacks and great chance to avoid
missile weapons such as arrows, darts, and boulders.  The chance depends on 
dexterity and armor weight.  Available to Rogues, Assassins, Warriors, and
Rangers.

Enhance Magic: Beneficial magics become stronger and last longer.  Includes
all powerups from spells and items (haste, elemental resistance, blessing,
etc).  Available to Mages, Priests, Paladins, Druids, and Necromancers.

Extra Trap: Allows a rogue to have two monster traps at once.  Available 
only to Rogues.

Fast Attacking: Gives a chance of an extra melee strike each round.  The
chance goes up for characters that normally have more attacks.  Effective
armed and unarmed.  Available to Warriors, Paladins, Assassins, Rogues, and
Rangers.

Fast Casting: Speeds the casting of all spells, but especially those well 
below the caster's level.  Available to Mages, Priests, Necromancers, and
Druids.

Fury: Allows faster action for a short time after attacking in melee or
taking damage.  Available to  Warriors, Priests, Paladins, Assassins, and
Rangers.

Harmony: Gain hit points whenever you cast any spell.  Available to
Priests, Paladins, and Druids.

Heighten Magic: Increases the effects of caster-level dependent spells.
Bonus starts out small but increases as spells are cast in rapid
succession.  Available to Mages, Priests, Necromancers, and Druids.

Holy Light: Grants increased light radius and resistance to light.  Evil,
undead, and light-sensitive creatures take extra damage in melee and fear
your light-based spells.  Available to Priests and Paladins.

Magic Resistance: Greatly improved saving throws.  Available to Mages,
Necromancers, and Paladins.

Mana Burn: Reduces monster mana in melee combat.  The mana burned adds to 
the melee damage.  Available to Rogues and Assassins.

Marksmanship: More critical hits with archery and thrown weapons.  Reduces
reliance on high ranged weapon skill for criticals.  Available to Warriors,
Assassins, Rogues, and Rangers.

Martial Arts: Gives a powerful unarmed attack (similar to a druid with the
Power Strike specialty).  Available to Warriors, Paladins and Assassins.

Meditation: Increased mana regeneration.  Combines well with regeneration
items (such as Defender weapons).  Available to Mages, Priests, Necromancers,
and Druids.

Mighty Throw: Doubles the range of throwing weapons and other thrown objects.
Available to Assassins, Rangers, Rogues, and Warriors.

Phasewalking: Grants a short term speed boost after teleportation.  Give
resistance to all forms of hostile teleportation.  Available to Mages,
Priests, and Rogues.

Piercing Shot: Archery attacks may skewer multiple targets.  After a
successful hit, an arrow or crossbow bolt will sometimes continue on; targets
behind the original are very like to be hit.  Multiple pierces are possible.
Available to Warriors, Assassins, and Rangers.

Power Siphon: Gain mana when monsters in line of sight cast spells.  Available
only to Mages.

Power Strike: Gives an empty handed druid a chance of an unusually strong
attack followed by an attempt to confuse the target.  Available only to Druids.

Rapid Fire: Allows faster arrow-shooting skill at the expense of some accuracy.
Available only to Rangers.

Regeneration: Increased HP regeneration.  Combines well with the regeneration
items (such as Defender weapons).  Available to Warriors, Rogues, Paladins,
Assassins, Rangers, and Druids.

Shield Mastery: Increased shield base AC, deflection chance, and bashing
damage.  Best with a large shield.  Ineffective when wielding a two-handed 
weapon.  Available to Warriors, Rangers, and Paladins.

Soul Siphon: Grants mana whenever a living monster is slain.  There is a chance
of taking damage when absorbing too many souls at once.  Available only to
Necromancers.

Trap Setting: Grants the ability to set monster traps similar to those set by
all Rogues.  Note that trap damage does depend on disarming skill.  Available
to Warriors, Rangers and Druids.

Unlight: Increases stealth, provides resist darkness, and gives a vision radius
of 2 when no light is wielded.  In dark areas provides protection from damage. 
Available to  Necromancers, Rogues, and Assassins.


=== Allowed Specialty Abilities for Each Class ===

               Warrior      Priest      Ranger      Druid      Assassin
                       Mage       Rogue      Paladin      Necro

Armour Mastery   Yes   No    No    No    No    Yes   No    No    No
Armour Profiency No    Yes   No    No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No
Armsman          Yes   No    Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No    Yes
Athletics        Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No    Yes
Beguile          No    Yes   No    No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No
Channeling       No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No
Clarity          No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No
Enhance Magic    No    Yes   Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No
Evasion          Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes
Extra Trap       No    No    No    Yes   No    No    No    No    No
Fast Attacking   Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No    Yes
Fast Casting     No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No
Fury             Yes   No    Yes   No    Yes   Yes   No    No    Yes
Harmony          No    No    Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No
Heighten Magic   No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No
Holy Light       No    No    Yes   No    No    Yes   No    No    No
Magic Resistance No    Yes   No    No    No    Yes   No    Yes   No
Mana Burn        No    No    No    Yes   No    No    No    No    Yes
Marksmanship     Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes
Martial Arts     Yes   No    No    No    No    Yes   No    No    Yes
Meditation       No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No
Mighty Throw     Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No    Yes
Phasewalking     No    Yes   Yes   Yes   No    No    No    No    No
Piercing Shot    Yes   No    No    No    Yes   No    No    No    Yes
Power Siphon     No    Yes   No    No    No    No    No    No    No
Power Strike     No    No    No    No    No    No    Yes   No    No
Rapid Fire       No    No    No    No    Yes   No    No    No    No
Regeneration     Yes   No    No    Yes   Yes   Yes   Yes   No    Yes
Shield Mastery   Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes   No    No    No
Soul Siphon      No    No    No    No    No    No    No    Yes   No
Trap Setting     Yes   No    No    No    Yes   No    Yes   No    No
Unlight          No    No    No    Yes   No    No    No    Yes   Yes
